Document how to extend the GraphQL schema (#24)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/advanced/graphql/slim-down-resolvers-with-loaders.md

  also similar to [GrAMPS’s
  models](https://gramps-graphql.github.io/gramps-express/data-source/tutorial-model/).
</blockquote>

## Why loaders?

When resolvers grow, you will likely extract functions or modules to share code
between resolvers. It could be constructing an `axios` instance with the correct
url and headers, modifying responses to return objects matching the GraphQL
schema or error management for instance.

Loaders are aimed at being node modules encapsulating all your business specific
code. We recommend to design them as pure JS modules without any dependency on
Front-Commerce or GraphQL features. Designing loaders with this approach has
several advantages:

- you can reuse existing code or libraries from another project
- if you migrate away from Front-Commerce, this code could be reused easily in
  your new application (as soon as it is in a Javascript environment of course)
- testability: the code from both your resolvers and loaders would be easier to
  test. You could inject fakes or mock loaders to test resolvers, and you could
  test loaders without the complexity of a GraphQL context since they are pure
  JS modules.

> - code sharing: under some circumstances you may also find convenient to share

Reviewer: Is that for loaders or other things like adapters?  
Because here I understand it's about loaders, but it would mean we need to create a dataloader on the client side, etc.

I'm not quite sure this is the best idea.

Author: It was more about the fact that loaders were pure JS code: it could lead to refactoring parts in smaller modules that could be shared.

This is not the best point of all of them. We will see if it leads to problematic implementations or poor practices.

  return currentValueOf(sku).then(currentValue =>
    counters.set(sku, currentValue + increment)
  );
};

export default {
  loadBySku: sku => currentValueOf(sku),
  incrementBySku: (sku, increment) => incrementValueOf(sku, increment)
};
```

You can then update the resolvers to use this loader:

```diff
// my-module/server/modules/clicks-counters/resolvers.js
-const counters = new Map();
+import CounterLoader from "./loader";

-const currentValueOf = sku => {
-  return new Promise(resolve => {
-    setTimeout(() => {
-      const currentValue = counters.get(sku) || 0;
-      resolve(currentValue);
-    }, Math.random() * 3000);
-  });
-};
-
module.exports = {
  Product: {
-    clicksCounter: ({ sku }) => currentValueOf(sku)
+    clicksCounter: ({ sku }) => CounterLoader.loadBySku(sku)
  },

  Mutation: {
    incrementProductCounter(_, { sku, incrementValue = 1 }) {
-      return currentValueOf(sku)
-        .then(currentValue => counters.set(sku, currentValue + incrementValue))
+      return CounterLoader.incrementBySku(sku, incrementValue)
        .then(() => ({
          success: true
        }));
    }
  }
};
```

### Using GraphQL context for Dependency Injection

> In its current state, resolvers are tightly coupled to the current

Reviewer: It's not really clear what current state you are refering to. I'd prefer something like

```suggestion
However, in the above example, resolvers are tightly coupled to the current
```

implementation. We recommend to leverage GraphQL’s context to inject a loader to

> resolvers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resolvers in order to resolve this issue.
```

The GraphQL context is (according to
[GraphQL.org](https://graphql.org/learn/execution/#root-fields-resolvers)):

> A value which is provided to every resolver and holds important contextual
> information like the currently logged in user, or access to a database.

In Front-Commerce (and most GraphQL implementations), the `context` is passed as
the 3rd argument of a resolver function.

Let’s refactor resolvers to use a loader from the context instead of importing
it:

```diff
// my-module/server/modules/clicks-counters/resolvers.js
-import CounterLoader from "./loader";
-
module.exports = {
  Product: {
-    clicksCounter: ({ sku }) => CounterLoader.loadBySku(sku)
+    clicksCounter: ({ sku }, _, { loaders }) => {
+      return loaders.Counter.loadBySku(sku);
+    }
  },

  Mutation: {
-    incrementProductCounter(_, { sku, incrementValue = 1 }) {
+    incrementProductCounter(_, { sku, incrementValue = 1 }, { loaders }) {
-      return CounterLoader.incrementBySku(sku, incrementValue)
+      return loaders.Counter.incrementBySku(sku, incrementValue)
        .then(() => ({
          success: true
        }));
    }
  }
};
```

> **You might be wondering why we used the `loaders` value from the context, and

Reviewer: I'd put the contextEnhancer before this refactoring. Because this paragraph looks like a... doc smell :thinking: 

I mean that by this that it's not explicit why would people be wondering this. Even though it seems clear to us.

Author: I disagree on this one, even though I am not convinced either by the transition.

IMO it is really important to point out how the direct import in resolvers (that were just created above) creates coupling. Also I feel that developers will have a basic knowledge of DI and might see a point in this refactoring, while knowing that there is a « kind of DI container somewhere » doing some dark magic from an obscure YAML or XML configuration file.

I’ll keep it for now, but let’s change it if we see some incomprehension from readers…

(more important) how this object was created… this is what we will learn in the
next section!**

### Registering a loader in Front-Commerce’s GraphQL context

For the previous refactoring to work, we must register our loader in GraphQL’s
context so the `loaders.Counter` could be used.

In Front-Commerce’s GraphQL modules, you can achieve this using the
[`contextEnhancer`](/docs/reference/graphql-module-definition.html#contextEnhancer-optional)
key of your module definition.

This function is called by Front-Commerce during each request for all GraphQL
modules, to construct the GraphQL `context.loaders` object. Each module can
build loaders and make them available in the context by returning an object to
be merged with previously declared loaders.

Let’s update the module definition to register a `Counter` loader:

```diff
// my-module/server/modules/clicks-counters/index.js
import typeDefs from "./schema.gql";
import resolvers from "./resolvers";
+import CounterLoader from "./loader";

export default {
  namespace: "ClicksCounters",
  typeDefs: typeDefs
  typeDefs: typeDefs,
-  resolvers: resolvers
+  resolvers: resolvers,

> +  contextEnhancer: () => {

Reviewer: I'd set an unused option/parameters argument to show explicitly that there are some here.

+    return {
+      Counter: CounterLoader
+    };
+  }
};
```

<blockquote class="info">
  Please refer to the [GraphQL module definition
  reference](/docs/reference/graphql-module-definition.html#contextEnhancer-optional)
  for the exact signature and a more complex example.

> </blockquote>

Reviewer: I had an "A-HA!" moment when I understood that loaders could use existing loaders.
It might be a good idea to mention this in a blockquote and to talk about dependencies.

edit: reading further, it might make sense to add it in the WIP section

Author: @JulienPradet sorry, I did not get it… could you please do it or explain your thoughts further?

## Supporting advanced use cases

The refactoring explained above enable a wide range of use cases. We encourage
you to get used to this pattern and explore the following documentation pages to
see how you could combine them to achieve your goals.

<blockquote class="wip">
  The content below is currently being written. If you need more detailed
  information, please [contact us](mailto:contact@front-commerce.com). We will
  make sure to answer you in a timely manner.
</blockquote>

> - optimize remote data fetching with dataloaders

Reviewer: I think that this list could be within the blockquote.
